---
layout: page
title: Capstone Project
doodle: /assets/images/doodle.png
---

---
* TOC
{:toc}

---

The Capstone Project is the main task of the course. The work is done
in the groups formed in Quarter 1. There are four components to
project, listed below.

As projects vary, you may choose the primary output of your project to
either be (1) a scientific report or (2) a visual presentation or
functional product. While every group must produce both of these for
their project, you may choose which has more weight when graded (see
the [syllabus](/student/quarter-2-syllabus/)).

### Checkpoints

Each of the components below have an associated
[checkpoint](/assignments/quarter-2-checkpoints/) that contain more
information about what is expected for each submission. Each
checkpoints will have an associated mandatory meeting with a
methodology instructor/TA.

### Report

The report for your project introduces/contextualizes the problem,
describes the methods used, states the results, and draws conclusions
about the results. This summary of your work follows best practices in
scientific writing, as laid out in quarter 1. Please speak with your
domain mentor about expectations on this assignment.

The report is graded by the domain mentor.

### Visual Presentation

The visual presentation may be a website, blog, artwork, functional
product, or service. There must be some consumer-facing (or
general-audience) component to this work. If your visual presentation
is not a blog hosted on a static website, it should be approved by
your domain mentor and the methodology instructor.

While you may be creative in creating this component, the default
approach is to:
1. Host a static project-blog on GitHub Pages (explained in lecture)
2. Re-use material from your report, reducing the amount of material
   and making stylistic changes to make it more appropriate to a
   casual reader / general audience.

The visual presentation is graded by the methodology instructor.

### Code Artifact

The code artifact contains all code for building/reproducing the
project, following best-practices in Data Science software
development. It is maintained in a *public* GitHub repository.

The code artifact is graded by the methodology instructor.

### Presentation

The presentation is a 5-7 minute/person slide-based presentation of
the project. This presentation must balance accessibility to a general
audience alongside detailed material for the domain expert.

The presentation is graded by both the domain mentors and the
methodology instructor.
